pockets full of keys phones wallet capes
and the like tell you what top tip get
an old feed on cut the top off it's a
handy space saver get a little plastic
bag a couple of in the tubes
remember with two take two folks allen
key step lobster your tire levers wrap
them up so the water tight so nice tight
bundle that stops it saving you a lot of
room in your pocket swap them into their
then your second bottle cage voila
keep those toes warm for extremely icy
conditions in the depths of winter mate
lucky jacket potato get some tin foil
and wrap over your socks and toes before
putting into your cycling shoe the
superb insulation against the elements
keep warm when those cafe stops there's
nothing worse after a long sweaty ride
and getting those coffee and cakes down
here to venturing out with a cold damp
under Jersey it's a good idea is to get
a spare one wrapped up in plastic in
your back pocket to keep you nice and
toasty the second part of your ride
standby lights for those really gloomy
mornings surprise fog patches an epic
ride that go on late into the afternoon
towards a very very good idea have a
pair of LEDs front and rear just as an
emergency to get your home nice and safe
always carried two in the tubes I'm not
one a puncher repair kit and besides the
road and the cold damp conditions is
about as much use as a chocolate fire
guard especially if you're on your own
because remember once the first ones
used you have a lot of spare so as a
rule make it part your ritual always
carry to choose the right tires that's
vitally important you get something for
the winter months that's up to the task
and by that I mean something with a
Kevlar lining with a good tread and
something between 23 and 25 millimeters
carry enough fuel now running out of
food and the long winter run as most of
us have experienced in a nasty
experience in the dreaded bonk so make
sure your pockets are full especially on
one a longer ride now a great seasonal
favorite
of course leftover Christmas cake but
today I've opted for GCN's uber bar make
sure you clean your winter bike now I
know it's not the first thing on your
mind when you get back from a very
difficult hard arduous ride but believe
me you can do it right and you do it
right then it's going to save you a lot
of time and hassle and possibly money so
give it a good rinse off get up all the
mud and all the corrosive salts that are
laying on the roads at that time of year
lubricate all the parts especially the
chain the hub area and the cassette and
hey presto for the next ride you're
straight out onto the road and you
prolonging the life of that's expensive
components stay warm for roadside
repairs when riding in a group and
somebody punches or has a mechanical
especially in very cold or wet
conditions it's a good idea for just one
or two people to remain doing the job at
hand whilst the rest of the group
continue riding at a steady pace
spinning the legs keeping warm and then
doing a u-turn before coming back
essentially keeping moving until the
repair is complete to avoid catching a
chill remember keep moving if you can
protect your gadgets now most of us
these days carry very expensive mobile
phones or Sat Navs around with us so
it's a very good idea especially when
you've got multiple layers of clothing
on to wrap your mobile phone in a little
sandwich bag or something like this to
protect it from moisture now the
moisture can build up under the layers
of clothing when you sweat especially in
the depths of winter so this is a very
good idea to protect your valuable
assets
we're going to start with the basics a
good under vest is essential as soon as
that